.\"
.Dd July 4, 2015
.Dt RELEASEBUILD 7
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm releasebuild
.Nd Reference document for
.Fx
release and snapshot build scripts
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
manual page is the reference document to the design, layout, and configuration
for the
.Xr thermite 8
utility.
.Sh BACKGROUND
The
.Fa generate-release.sh
script was build script used for the
.Fx 9.0
and
.Fx 9.1
release cycles, and was written to simplify the release process after a major
rewrite of the release tools to produce packaged output compatible with the
new
.Fx
installer,
.Xr bsdinstall 8 .
.Pp
Prior to the
.Fx 9.2
and
.Fx 10.0
release cycles,
.Fa release.sh
was introduced, heavily modeled after
.Fa generate-release.sh ,
with the key design intent of providing build-specific configurability.
.Pp
The
.Fa release.sh
has since been the used for weekly snapshot builds and final
.Fx
release builds.
.Pp
The
.Xr thermite 8
utility was written as a result of the configuration capabilities provided by
.Fa release.sh ,
intended as a mechanism to iterate through all supported architectures for
a specific
.Fx
branch and produce installation images by executing a single script.
.Pp
Since the original rewrite of
.Fa generate-release.sh
as
.Fa release.sh ,
and design intent and implementation of
.Xr thermite 8 ,
continuing development of both have been highly dependent of each other.
.Sh LAYOUT
While there should not be any specific filesystem hierarchy dependencies or
expectations, is recommended to use the utilities at least three directory
levels from the
.Fa /
directory on the system.
.Pp
The directory structure used by the
.Fx
Release Engineering Team is:
.Pp
.Bl -compact
.It
For snapshot builds
.Pq -CURRENT and -STABLE :
.Bl -offset indent
.It
/releng/scripts-snapshot/scripts
.El
.Pp
For release builds:
.Bl -offset indent
.It
/releng/scripts-release/scripts
.El
.El
.Pp
This hierarchy helps avoid directory name collisions for the
.Fa src/ ,
.Fa ports/ ,
and
.Fa doc/
trees, as well as the build
.Xr chroot 8
directories.
.Sh NOTES
While
.Xr thermite 8
and related utilities should be usable on architectures other than
.Li amd64 ,
the design has been written specifically for
.Li amd64
build machines, and proper functionality on other architectures is not
guaranteed.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr thermite.conf 5 ,
.Xr build 7 ,
.Xr release 7 ,
.Xr setrev.sh 8 ,
.Xr thermite.sh 8
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written by
.An Glen Barber Aq gjb@FreeBSD.org
for reference by the
.Fx
Release Engineering Team.
