.\"
.Dd July 4, 2015
.Dt thermite.conf 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thermite.conf
.Nd Configuration file used by
.Xr thermite.sh 8
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
file is used by
.Xr thermite.sh 8
set various configuration options.
.Sh CONVENTIONS
The variable naming convention in
.Nm
was designed specifically to prevent accidental collision with variables used
by other parts of the build system, such as
.Xr make 1
and
.Fa release.sh .
.Pp
Lowercase variables control the behavior of
.Xr thermite.sh 8 ,
and uppercase variables are passed to
.Fa release.sh
through
.Xr env 1
.Pq if applicable .
.Pp
Variables that only affect the behavior of
.Xr thermite.sh 8
are also referenced as
.Dq internal ,
and variables that affect the behavior of the various parts of the build
system are also referenced as
.Dq external .
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Nm
utility intentionally ignores environment variables set by the user, and only
variables set explicitly in
.Nm
are honored by
.Xr thermite.sh 8 .
.Pp
Configuration variables used by
.Fa release.sh
are documented in
.Fa src/release/release.conf.sample .
.Sh INTERNAL VARIABLES
Variables used by
.Xr thermite.sh 8
include:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Va use_zfs
If set to a non-empty value,
.Xr thermite.sh 8
will use various features of
.Xr zfs 8 ,
specifically
.Cm snapshot
and
.Cm clone .
.Pp
If
.Va use_zfs
is set,
.Xr thermite.sh 8
will additionally check for the existence of the
.Fa /dev/zfs
character device to ensure the system is capable of using
.Xr zfs 8
features.
.Pp
Enabling
.Va use_zfs
requires
.Va zfs_root ,
.Va zfs_mount ,
and
.Va zfs_parent
to be set.
.It Va zfs_root
The parent
.Xr zfs 8
dataset on the system.
This is intentionally unset by default, and
.Xr thermite.sh 8
will not attempt to automatically detect the dataset to use to prevent
creating and destroying datasets without active knowledge of the user.
.It Va zfs_mount
The top-most
.Xr zfs 8
dataset
.Pq relative to the parent dataset
within which
.Xr thermite.sh 8
will create datasets for the build
.Xr chroot 8 ,
as well as
.Fa src/ ,
.Fa ports/ ,
and
.Fa doc/
tree checkouts.
.It Va zfs_parent
The dataset that should be considered to be the
.Dq parent
dataset of the build
.Xr chroot 8 .
In general,
.Va zfs_parent
is expected to expand to
.Va ${zfs_root}/${zfs_mount} .
.It Va emailgoesto
The target email address that should receive build completion output.
.It Va scriptdir
The directory where
.Xr thermite.sh 8
is located.
.Pq This should be explicitly set, as minimal sanity checks are performed.
.It Va srcdir
The target directory to use for the the
.Fa src/release
checkout from the branch.
.Pp
If the directory exists,
.Xr thermite.sh 8
will recursively revert any modifications prior to updating the checkout.
.It Va logdir
The directory within which build logs are written.
.It Va chroots
The directory that is used to build the
.Fx
userland to
.Dq seed
the build
.Xr chroot 8 .
.It Va ftpdir
The top-level directory that is used by
.Fn ftp_stage
in
.Xr thermite.sh 8 .
.It Va releasesrc
The
.Fx
.Fa src/
branch to use to checkout the
.Fa release/
directory.
This is set to
.Va head
by default.
.It Va heads
The branch version number of the -CURRENT branch.
.It Va stables
The branch version number(s) of the -STABLE branch(es).
.It Va revs
The list of branch version numbers, as set in
.Va heads
and
.Va stables .
.It Va archs
The architectures for which
.Fx
build output should be produced.
.Pp
Note that is for directory creation only, and does not
.Em not
have the same meaning as
.Va TARGET
and
.Va TARGET_ARCH
in the build system.
.It Va kernels
The full list of kernels that should be built.
.Pp
See the
.Va TARGET BUILD CONFIGURATION
section in
.Xr thermite.sh 8
for additional details.
.It Va types
The type of build.
While this could theoretically be set to anything, only the values
.Dq snap
and
.Dq release
are guaranteed to work.
.El
.\"
.Sh EXTERNAL VARIABLES
Variables passed through to the build tools by
.Xr thermite.sh 8
include:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Va CHROOTBUILD_SKIP
It is recommended to set this to avoid building the build
.Xr chroot 8
environment, which is handled separately by
.Fn build_chroots .
.It Va SRC_UPDATE_SKIP
When
.Va use_zfs
is set, it is recommended to set this to avoid updating the
.Fa src/
tree within the build
.Xr chroot 8 ,
ensuring the revision does not change between builds.
.It Va PORTS_UPDATE_SKIP
When
.Va use_zfs
is set, it is recommended to set this to avoid updating the
.Fa ports/
tree within the build
.Xr chroot 8 ,
ensuring the revision does not change between builds.
.It Va DOC_UPDATE_SKIP
When
.Va use_zfs
is set, it is recommended to set this to avoid updating the
.Fa doc/
tree within the build
.Xr chroot 8 ,
ensuring the revision does not change between builds.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh NOTES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr build 7 ,
.Xr release 7 ,
.Xr releasebuild 7
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
manual page was written by
.An Glen Barber Aq gjb@FreeBSD.org
for the
.Fx
Release Engineering Team, under sponsorship from the
.Fx
Foundation.
