.\"
.Dd July 4, 2015
.Dt thermite.sh 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm thermite.sh
.Nd Build utility used by the
.Fx
Release Engineering Team
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl d
.Fl c Ar thermite.conf
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is a wrapper script for
.Fa release.sh .
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility requires a configuration file for use, and will display usage details
and exit if
.Fl c
is not specified, or if the specified
.Ar thermite.conf
file does not exist.
.Pp
All information output from
.Nm
is written to
.Xr stdout 4 .
All output produced otherwise is written to the build log file.
.Pp
Additional debugging information will be printed when
.Fl d
is used.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
By design,
.Nm
intentionally ignores environment variables set by the user that affect
.Fa release.sh .
.Sh CONFIGURATION
See
.Xr thermite.conf 5 .
.Sh TARGET BUILD CONFIGURATION
The initial versions of
.Nm
were designed to iterate through multiple
.Fx
branches
.Pq such as -CURRENT, and multiple -STABLE branches .
.Pp
While this is no longer the actual use case, primarily because of the length
of time for all architectures for all supported branches to complete, this was
the major influence for the target build configuration file naming convention.
.Pp
The expected naming for target build configuration files is:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -offset indent -compact
.It Va REVISION-ARCH-KERNEL-TYPE.conf
.El
.Pp
The values of
.Va REVISION ,
.Va ARCH ,
.Va KERNEL ,
and
.Va TYPE
are taken from the
.Va revs ,
.Va archs ,
.Va kernels ,
and
.Va types
defined in
.Xr thermite.conf 5 ,
and used by
.Fn source_config
.Pq described below .
.Sh NOTES
For
.Fx
Release Engineering Team use, the
.Fa setrev.sh
script must be run first, otherwise
.Nm
will exit if either the
.Fa svnrev_src
or
.Fa builddate
files do not exist.
.Sh FUNCTIONS
The functions within
.Nm
are classified as either
.Dq operative ,
.Dq helper ,
or
.Dq extras .
.Pp
The operative functions are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -offset indent
.It Fn main
Sets the
.Va releasesrc
variable to
.Dq head ,
parses the options provided, ensuring
.Fl c
and
.Ar thermite.conf
are specified, and sources the configuration file.
.Pp
Then
.Fn main
runs, in this order the
.Fn prebuild_setup ,
.Fn zfs_bootstrap ,
.Fn build_chroots ,
.Fn install_chroots ,
.Fn build_release ,
.Fn upload_ec2_ami ,
.Fn upload_azure_image ,
.Fn upload_gce_image ,
and
.Fn upload_vagrant_image
functions.
.Pp
All functions except
.Fn prebuild_setup
and
.Fn zfs_bootstrap
are invoked through
.Fn runall ,
documented below.
.Pp
The
.Fn main
function itself provides no direct functionality.
.It Fn prebuild_setup
.\" NODOC
.It Fn zfs_bootstrap
.\" NODOC
.It Fn zfs_create_tree
.\" NODOC
.It Fn zfs_mount_tree
.\" NODOC
.It Fn source_config
Evaluates the existence of the build target configuration file.
If the file exists, the file is sourced by
.Xr sh 1
to set the build target configuration variables.
.It Fn build_chroots
.\" NODOC
.It Fn install_chroots
.\" NODOC
.It Fn build_release
.\" NODOC
.El
.Pp
The helper functions are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -offset indent
.It Fn info
Prints build status information to
.Xr stdout 4 .
.It Fn verbose
If the
.Fl d
flag is specified at runtime,
.Fn verbose
prints additional output for debugging to
.Xr stdout 4 .
.It Fn runall
.\" NODOC
.It Fn loop_revs
.\" NODOC
.It Fn loop_archs
.\" NODOC
.It Fn loop_kernels
.\" NODOC
.It Fn loop_types
.\" NODOC
.It Fn runcmd
.\" NODOC
.El
.Pp
The extras functions are:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -offset indent
.It Fn ftp_stage
Copies the final build results into a directory hierarchy that matches the
public FTP mirrors.
The
.Fn ftp_stage
will
.Fn return 0
in various cases, in particular to catch error conditions that are non-fatal,
such as a non-existent build target configuration file.
.Pp
The
.Fn ftp_stage
function invokes the
.Va ftp-stage
target in
.Fa src/release/Makefile.mirrors
in the build
.Xr chroot 8 ,
however the special configuration variable
.Va EVERYTHINGISFINE
must be set.
.It Fn upload_azure_image
Invokes the
.Va azure-upload
target in
.Fa src/release
within the build
.Xr chroot 8 .
.It Fn upload_ec2_image
Invokes the
.Va ec2ami
target in
.Fa src/release
within the build
.Xr chroot 8 .
.It Fn upload_gce_image
Invokes the
.Va gce-upload
target in
.Fa src/release
within the build
.Xr chroot 8 .
.It Fn upload_vagrant_image
Invokes the
.Va vagrant-upload
target in
.Fa src/release
within the build
.Xr chroot 8 .
.El
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr thermite.conf 5 ,
.Xr build 7 ,
.Xr release 7 ,
.Xr releasebuild 7 ,
.Xr setrev.sh 8
.Sh AUTHORS
The
.Nm
utility and this manual page were written by
.An Glen Barber Aq gjb@FreeBSD.org
for the
.Fx
Release Engineering Team, under sponsorship from the
.Fx
Foundation.
